Should the dean be bound by the majority vote of the
department heads? Oh, no, no. It's the same type
thing. You don't want a weak dean. In fact, I'd say
that with pages. You want a dean that will not only
stand up to his department heads but stand up to the
upper administration. And I think anybody like
that has got to be willing to step down any time. I
mean, there are some things that are worth that.
Looking back now over half century almost, well,
half century, can you think of some opportunities
that we at A&M in engineering that we missed, we
passed by? Well, one, well, there's a couple.
Well, one of the things I wanted to do, and I
couldn't get Prescott to help, and I couldn't
support it, and I believe he was, yeah, he was up
there then. Well, there's a polymer group, and we
should be strong in polymers at Texas A&M because
this whole Gulf Coast is in the business of making
polymers. I don't care how many Nobel people type
you got. We need some people working on the
chemistry that's going on in Texas. And I don't
think we've got very much of that going on. We need,
that's one of the things that we still need. That's
still an opportunity. But the whole group wanted
to move down here. From where? Massachusetts. The
University of Massachusetts, I recall. And we had
it all lined up, Benson and I, and we couldn't get
support for it. Another one I think the university
missed, they're always trying to bring people
into this system. One of the schools that they
didn't bring in, they should have been on the bus.
They were on the ball. And I told Thompson so. I
think it was too late. It was Lamar Tech. Lamar Tech
is an engineering school like A&M, a good location
on the coast. And is a school that fits with A&M
better. It got into this, I told him, even though
it's in the other bunch, it doesn't have to stay in
there. The people in Lamar Tech would much prefer
to be in our system than in theirs because there's
more to be gained. We've got a lot of synergisms
that you don't have. with a bunch of teacher
schools. They got in with Sam Houston and some
others. But there's one opportunity that we've
missed there, and they've gotten in a lot of others
that I don't know whether there were
opportunities or not. They may go the other way,
but that's one that ought to be pursued now. Did we
miss on any scholars that you can think of, any
faculty that we might have gotten? Oh, I don't know
that we did.
I'm not sure that we might have offered the one or
two that we didn't get. But you can't think of any
that became really great. Would have made the
difference. One of the things that I think that
another thing that I think is a real issue is that
universities want to buy their standing. They go
around hiring everybody else's people. I think a
real credit to the university is did we grow
people? And I think that there's no mark ever given
for how many people did you grow on your faculty,
bringing them up from assistant professor to
where they became people of stature. And that
really should be the mark of a university is, did
you grow them yourself, or did you just put the
money out and get them? Anybody can buy anything if
they got the money. Who's the old boy that's got
CNN? He can buy it. But I think there's not enough.
There's not enough credit given, and I don't ever
hear that mentioned, is did you develop these
people? Now, in a company, that's a real mark. They
don't go and get their people from somebody else.
Did you ever have, or do you now have, any
department of chemical engineering elsewhere
after whom you wanted us to be modeled? No. I don't
think we ought to be looking at somebody else.
That's the trouble. What we ought to do is look at
the state of Texas, the industry that we have, and
then model ourselves to serve the people that we
are set up to serve. And I think trying to be like
somebody else, unless they've got the same
situation we are, we are unique, we've got the A&M
in the name, and we ought to go ahead and pull
through on these other things. Yeah. Like your
alma mater at NC State, they are very good in
textile. Yeah. Well, that was a whole area,
textile. That fits with that state. It fits with
the state. Yeah. And we hear a downgrade in
agriculture some. I think that, I was talking to
one of the people in agriculture, and I think his
old Harry was wanting to say, well, you don't need
all this. One guy said, well, hell, I guess you'd
get one cow and one hog and teach agriculture. But I
think agriculture is a big part of it. I think
agriculture is a big part of it. I think
agriculture is a big thing, and it still is a big
thing in the state, and will continue to be. It may
be a different type of agriculture, it may be very
intensive type, but you've got all the different
type industries that we've got here, and we need to
be, we've got the electronic industry and so on,
but we've also got the big chemical industry, and
we'll still, this chemical industry is not going
away. In fact, I'm writing an article right here
now, a study that we did. It's saying that actually
the 20th and 21st century should be called the
chemical age, because you can't look anywhere and
see any material that wasn't in some way touched by
the chemical industry. You might say, well, the
information age and all of this. Well, actually,
that's just come from a calculator that's made out
of chips, which is a chemical product. So all of
those are really subsets of the chemical. What
we've really done is bring on all these new
materials that have made life a lot better, and
have made possible all these other things. They
look like they're the thing that's driving it, and
they do have an upper hand right now, but you've got
to have all these things, and people are not going
to do without them, and they're still going to be
coming, more and more of them, and what's
happening is that the life sciences is really,
they're recognizing that they're just
chemistry, and as they learn the chemistry and
cancer and all of this, they're going to be able to
better understand and treat all these things as
well as the chemicals produce better foods. So
some of these companies are separating
themselves into life sciences and chemicals, and
I think that's a mistake because one of these days
they're going to need a life, what they might refer
to as a biological process, but all they're doing
is carrying out a chemical reaction right next to
another one that they regard as a chemical
reaction. So I think that's the direction that
we're going to go in. They'll come back together.
Right now they're going apart, but they'll come
back together. And so I see the chemical as being a
big thing from now on. Am I correct that you appear
to be defining chemical engineering as applied
chemistry? Chemistry in the real world that
serves a purpose? Yeah. Let's see, as you went out
to either search for funding for chemical
engineering research or to work more on chemical
engineering, what did you do? I did a lot of
research. I did a lot of research. I worked more
closely with some of our alumni and so forth. Do you
have any stories of the real world of how those
people felt about A&M and about the chemical
engineering here? Oh,
I'm not, it's been a long time since I've, I did go
with them the other day though, and old Charles
Herter, just a surprising thing. I taught him, and
it's a good thing I continued to teach because he
graduated around the same time I graduated,
around 72. And you know, Les Appelt, he is now the
president and chief executive officer of that
company. And he was a chemical engineer, and the
reason he's done so well is that he can judge
commercial projects. And so he's at the very top of
it, and I went with old Legetti and him down there to
hunt some money. And I hadn't really had much to do
with him since he graduated. I'd met him once other
time. And, you know, he was a good guy. He was a good
guy. And when J.D. called up, he said, be sure and
bring Dr. Holland with you. And we got down there,
and he said, oh, he just welcomed with Omar, and he
said, can I give you a hug?
And I was sure glad that, even though I could have
just sat on my butt and not taught anything as
department head, I continued to teach because
those are the kind of relationships that you, you
don't realize how many of them are out there until
you get out there. We had a big class at the end of the
M.T. and we were able to pay for a whole class on the
5th of August. And I figured, since we had just
started, I could do whatever I wanted. But I wanted
to stay out of the classroom. So I had never really
found any students that were interested in
teaching the math The internet was a big thing. I
could learn something new. It's hard to do a few
things a day without talking to people. Because
they're scattered all over. Let's see. Did you
ever have, you know, I talked with this old boy that
wasn't even one of our students. 55, 56, down at
Dow. And he told me that when he saw that I was going
to give the talk, he said, I don't think that could
be the same Dr. Holland that I knew and taught me
that course. But now he's an old man. Well, he said
that at that time he was about 20, 21, and I was about
30. And he thought that that looked awfully old to
him then, 30 years old. But you run across, I've run
across a lot of people that I've taught in graduate
extension courses. So I think, actually, well,
you go back to the Bible. What was the teacher? And
this is what people don't think about, that
teaching probably is the most honorable of all
professions and the most important. And it's the
way to have the most, the most influential
influence. Did you ever have, in your years as a
faculty member and or department head, did you
ever have a legislator or a regent attempt to
intervene and twist your arm? No, the closest I
came was this little boy that gave the money for the
business administration bill. John Blocker.
Blocker. In the early 70s, we were having this
energy. And so I'd set up this energy symposium.
And I'd been down in Mexico, and I'd visited the old
boy. De La Pena was, he was in charge of all
purchasing for PMAX. In the last four years is
where you rake in the money. You know, you slip some
out of all of it. And let's see, I can't forget,
remember the other guy's name. He was in the
University of Texas. He was in charge of all
production. And so. So when Blocker, for some
reason, he heard about it. So he sent his plane down
to the King. They stopped over at the King Ranch and
went hunting down there a little bit, I think. And
then Blocker sent his plane over to pick them up.
And he also put them in the quarters for the Board of
Regents over here at the MSC. And then that night,
he wanted to introduce the
fellow from Texas. He was in charge of all the oil.
And here's what he said. He says, this is a great
moment in history. Mexico has just discovered
they've got all of this oil. And he said, they need
to sell it. And there's not a better person to sell
it than I am.
That was the way he introduced it. And it wasn't,
well, a year or two after they were chasing both of
those all over the country, they were wanting to
know where they'd head out to. Because. Because
they'd absconded with some money down there. But
that was one of the cases where I did have a Board of
Directors member involved. Actually, I knew Dr.
Boyd, but not all that well. We used to go fishing
down there, and I'd talk to him. He knew. But I
wasn't around him enough just to know him
personally like I did Rudder. All right, now, I've
about finished questions. Do you think of any
topics that we should have talked about? We
didn't. I don't. It seems to me like we've covered
an awful lot. All right. Let's see. One item is to
say if you have at this point or any time in the
future any papers, memorabilia, or anything else
that you are going to dispose of, I beg you, please
hand it over to the A&M Archives so it'll be
preserved forever. I think I've thrown about
everything away already. Well, that's what I
worry about is things getting thrown away because
it is the accumulation that can help give a more
clear picture of A&M. But, you know, we've had so
little space at this place that we just didn't have
room enough to store it. But, see, now, over in the
archives with the Cushing, they do. Okay, next to
last question. Let's make believe that someone
gives you a check for a million dollars, and it's a
good, solid check, and there's only one
requirement. You have to pass it on to Texas A&M,
and you decide what they should do with it. In other
words, if you could give A&M a million dollars,
what would you want them to do with it? Oh, I think it
should. I'm not sure about other departments, but
one of the places where we need money more than
anywhere else, and it's the hardest raised, and
that is graduate fellowships. You can raise money
for undergraduate fellowships. Because most
people can associate with them that were
undergraduates that have gone out and done well.
But the ones that's hardest is the graduate
students and the, well, that one wouldn't get very
far on chairs as far as that goes, but I'd say with
that amount of money that this would be helped with
graduate fellowships so that we could attract
some real good students. And I'd like to see them up
the ante for USC. Well,
I'm not sure I know what you mean there. That gives
them a little better salary, and we do foreigners
to encourage more of our own citizens to go to
graduate school. You're saying the stipend for
graduate students. The stipend for graduate
students. There's nothing in the world for us
wrong with us being partial to our own students.
And so we don't have to treat them exactly like we
treat the foreigners. And so just to get some of
ours in. They are so up against it that they'll come
here under a different set of circumstances, and
our own people will. But we want our own people in
the, we want them involved. And so we don't, in the
industry and in the research, running the
research organizations, and so we need to get
those kind of people in graduate school and not all
foreigners. Now, the Saudis didn't mind at all
doing things like that because I was over there
once, and the king was having trouble with all the
young Saudis. The Saudis wanted to get out and
drive automobiles up and down the beach. And a lot
of them got into driving cabs. And so while I was
there, he came out with a proclamation that no
Saudi man could drive a cab until he was 30 years
old. He figured by then the fever would have worn
off because they were looking at, they wanted
their people to go to get an education and help run
that country. And so I think we've got to do the same
thing. All right, last question. After 50, more
than 50 years of service here, what feelings do you
have in your heart for Texas A&M? Well, I think it's
a great school, and I think that what we should
have, one of the things I see wrong with hiring so
many, we always think we have to hire an outsider,
but a lot of times it's really I have a bag we'll
travel. And I think that we have, we need to hire an
outsider. And I think that we need more people
coming up through organization like they have in
companies to where you know the culture and you
have more dedicated people that will be, do what
they think is best for the university and not
always career oriented what's best for me. And so I
think that's one of the things that I would say is
that we do need more of that so that we will get
people who are dedicated and I think people have
stayed with it a long time, are dedicated and want
to see the best for A&M.